So this scripture
we’re all very familiar with:
“No man
“can come to me unless the Father,
who sent me, draws him.”
So that’s a statement inspired by God.
And when we reflect on it
—give it a lot of thought—
we can sense that Jehovah
really cares about us as individuals.
And that’s what
we want to develop this morning.
If you think of this verse,
it just proves Jehovah
cares about us as individuals.
Now, that’s important
because regardless of whoever we are,
from time to time
negative emotions can affect us.
For instance, ‘I know Jehovah
loves all these brothers and sisters,
but I’m just not sure about me.’
Well, if you reflect on this verse,
see, it reassures us
that Jehovah cares about us
as individuals.
And to help us appreciate this verse
in our revised New World Translation,
find John chapter 21, if you would, please.
And we’ll consider this account here,
and you’ll see how it connects
with Jehovah caring about us as individuals
in the Scripture text, John 6:44.
You find in verse 2, Simon Peter, Thomas,
and the other disciples here.
And Peter says in verse 3:
“I am going fishing.”
So they go along with him,
and they go to board the boat
and spend all night,
and they didn’t catch a thing.
Now, what’s interesting is Jesus
manifests himself here,
according to verse 4,
and in verse 5, he questions:
“‘Children, you do not have anything to eat,
do you?’
They answered: ‘No!’”
Now he directs them:
“‘Cast the net on the right side of the boat
and you will find some.’
“So they cast it,
“but they were not able to haul it in
because of the large number of fish.”
And the number was large,
and it’s specified in verse 11 as “153,”
and they’re called “big fish.”
Now, for years the 1984 revision
had said in this verse
—and literally in the Greek it’s appropriate
(doesn’t mean it’s a bad translation)—
the New World Translation
had said they weren’t “able to draw it in.”
That’s appropriate
—nothing technically wrong with it.
However, the revision helps us
appreciate that if you have 153 big fish,
even if you’ve got strong fishermen,
they’re hauling.
The word “draw” doesn’t capture it
in translation.
And that helps us appreciate now John 6:44.
We wouldn’t say “haul.”
It still says “draws him.”
See, it’s a different word,
and words do matter.
And we appreciate the revision here.
This makes sense even though
the literal Greek is there “to draw.”
But, see, at John 6:44, “draws” is different.
Jesus knew his Father
and still knows more about his Father
than any person alive.
And in no way would he want us to be thinking
that He hauls us in or,
we might say,
drags people into the truth.
Now, that’s a priceless lesson
for all of us to remember
in our preaching activity,
in the Bible study activity,
as a parent or parents raising a child.
See, sometimes you can come across
like you’re dragging them.
That doesn’t work.
Jehovah is gentle
with his drawing of a person.
He respects their free will.
By means of his holy spirit and his Word,
he’ll tug at the heart and he draws them.
And that’s important
because we have a comment there
about what young people might reason,
‘Well, he drew my parent or parents,
but not me.’
Well, that’s erroneous thinking
when you look at what Jesus said here:
“No man [and that includes
the women] can come to me
unless the Father,
who sent me, draws him.”
So that’s individual attention
that Jehovah gives,
and that’s priceless.
So whatever you’re dealing with,
you have to pause and think,
‘Well, Jehovah, you drew me.’
And that’s precious.
That’ll get you through
all sorts of negative thinking,
and you just get rid of it
because the Sovereign of the universe
drew you into
your baptized relationship with him.
And that’s something
we should always feel special about.
And I thought of different circumstances
as I was meditating on this text.
And it brought to mind
an experience I had
back in Providence, Rhode Island.
This was before my wife and I had children.
And I remember being at the meeting,
and it was a nice experience.
And here’s this young person, late teens,
not looking like one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And he just kind of came in,
and I had observed him.
And he sits down,
and nobody is talking to him at that point.
So I went over and sat next to him:
“How are you?”
and mentioned my name.
“Glad to have you here”
and trying to get to know him.
Well, it turns out his mom
was a baptized Witness
and for long not doing anything.
The family had all sorts of issues.
And yet in spite of all of this,
it occurred to me,
Jehovah drew this young person to Him
—right to the Kingdom Hall.
He wanted a Bible study.
He had all sorts of thoughts.
Just because he was so quiet, see,
sometimes that means they’re deep thinkers.
And it was a privilege
to be used by Jehovah to help him.
And I always appreciated it.
And he came along,
had different things to deal with,
ended up married to a nice pioneer sister.
They had children they raised in the truth.
And he’s been an elder for a long time.
Why?
Because Jehovah noticed his mom
—He may have drawn her
at some point in her life.
But in the midst
of all of this wrong that’s going on
(and this has happened to more
than one individual Witness,
where their parent or parents
weren’t living up to it),
here they are serving the true God.
Well, it just proves Jehovah
cares for them as an individual.
He drew them into the truth.
That’s priceless.
It’s something
that we should always treasure.
And parents can learn, too,
as you’re working with a child or children,
to stay away
from the dragging them into the truth.
That’s not God’s way.
He doesn’t do it.
I don’t know who we think we are,
but you cannot drag anybody,
whether it’s a Bible study or your own child,
into a relationship with God.
Jehovah is not that way.
We can do all we can to set a good example,
teach the truth, live the truth.
But if Jehovah draws them,
they’ve got to connect with him.
So it’s just something
to appreciate and treasure
and recognize
—that Jehovah is the one who draws people.
Now, just to keep this in mind,
if you’ll look at John 6:44 once again,
and bear this in mind
whenever you’re dealing with something
that is disturbing
your relationship with God.
Think about how much Jehovah
cares about you as an individual,
verse 44:
“No man [see, this is the Son of God himself:
No man]
can come to me unless the Father,
who sent me, draws him.”
And so that’s priceless.
Jehovah has drawn us.
He gives us personal attention,
and we love him for that.
And finally, Psalm 73,
after Jehovah draws us,
we have this personal responsibility,
and Jehovah expects us to fulfill it.
In Psalm 73
(remembering how much Jehovah
truly cares for us
and then that we
have this personal responsibility)
in the A part of verse 28,
this should be our resolve personally:
“But as for me
“[you have to say this; I have to say this:
But as for me],
drawing near to God is good for me.”
So how good it is
that after Jehovah has drawn us
—given us this personal attention and care—
now it’s our responsibility
through personal study, meditation,
meaningful prayers that we draw near to God,
because that’s “good for [us]”!